---
layout: default
title: Anwendungsfall 1 - No-budget Production with AI Tools
parent: Anwendungsfaelle
nav_order: 1
---


# Anwendungsfall 1: No-budget Production with AI Tools

In this workshop, we will navigate the landscape of video production, leveraging state-of-the-art AI tools to produce content quickly at zero cost.

Within this session, we will utilize:
1. ChatGPT to generate a script on a given topic.
2. PlayHT for generating the voiceover.
3. Lumen5 will generate the actual video
4. and Kapwing will add subtitles in no-time.

## 1. Script generation with ChatGPT

1. Navigate to https://chat.openai.com/ and log into your account.

2. Strike up a new conversation with ChatGPT and ask to have a text on a specific topic generated.

3. If you’re not satisfied with the quality of the generated answer, here are phrases you can use and customize to help you reach your desired outcome:

    - “Please generate a text on { topic } that has a good and concise length for narration on TikTok.”
    - “Structure the text in an engaging and captivating way, moving punchlines and twist to the end of the paragraphs.”

## 2. Voiceover with PlayHT

1. Navigate to https://play.ht/ and log into your account

2. Click the button “Go to the studio” on the top right and enter the voiceover studio.

3. “Create New File” and choose an appropriate model.

4. Copy the ChatGPT script into PlayHT transcript area.

5. Preview your narration with the play-button on the left of each text.

6. Change the narrator and generated paragraphs by clicking on the text-field:

    - Regenerate a paragraph by clicking on the right
    - Change the narrator by clicking on the name of the speaker

7. Once you are finished, press “Generate All” to get your narration!

8. Preview the whole generation by clicking the play button on top of the bottom timeline.

9. If you’re satisfied, hit “Export” → as a single audio file in the top right.

## 3. Generating a video with Lumen5

1. Navigate to https://lumen5.com and log into your account.

2. If you’re not automatically redirected, open the dashboard.

3. Click on “New Video”.

4. Choose a starting template.

5. Click on “Voiceover” to upload your generated voiceover as a starting basis.

6. Wait for the inital video generation.

7. Correc the transcript by clicking on the word to edit.

8. Change the format on the left tab “Format”, then wait for re-generation of your video in a different format.

9. Edit indivdual “slides” by clicking on the parts you’d like to change.

10. Once you’re done, press “Publish”.

## 4. Adding animated subtitles using Kapwing

1. Go to https://www.kapwing.com/ and log into your account.

2. Navigate to your workspace and “Create New Project”.

3. Click to upload the video created with Lumen5.

4. Open the tab “Subtitles” and click on “Generate Subtitles”.

5. Again, because the narration is not 100% clean, we check it with the text generated by ChatGPT.

6. Go through the subtitles and correct spelling, or add Emojis!

7. Once you’re done, click on the subtitles in your timeline and edit the style by using the menu on the right:

    - Choose a template as a starting point and further customize the look.

8. When you’re happy with the look of your subtitles, “Export Project”, select the desired format and download your completely generated video :)
